---
title: "Running code in the editor"
teaching: 0
exercises: 0
questions:
- "What is the question?"

objectives:
- What are the main objectives?
- 
- 
keypoints:
- "First key point."
---

Rather than running this code one line at a time, we could write it in the Editor window, save it, and run everything at once.

Spyder will run your code in order, line by line, from top to bottom.

Example- same as code above to convert area in pixels to mm2.  Create a new script file by clicking the blank page button on the top left.  Then, type in the following commands:
~~~
"""
Created on Mon Apr 24 21:15:50 2017

@author: erin.doyle
"""

AreaInPixels = 6929
mm2PerPixel = 0.0277
AreaInMM = AreaInPixels*mm2PerPixel
print(AreaInMM)
~~~ 
{: .language-python}

## Run the program by clicking the green arrow button at the top of the Spyder window.

* The first time you run a script, Spyder will ask you to save your code.  This is when you can choose where to save it

* By default, the Working Directory is where Spyder will save your scripts and look for files.  You can change your working directory by using the buttons at the top-left of Spyder.  It is a good idea to create one folder that you can easily find to store all of your Python projects.   On the DIVAS VM, your working directory is automatically set to </home/diva>.

Later, when we use scripts to open files or import functions from other .py files, you will need to either 1) Make sure the file you are trying to open/import is located in the same folder as the script you are running OR 2) supply the full path to the file.
{: .callout}


> When you save your program, make sure the name ends in the file extension “.py”.  This tells  your computer that this is a Python script.  It will also enable color coding in Spyder.  In fact, if you open a script in Spyder and don’t see color coding, the first thing you should check is for the “.py” extension.
{: .callout}

## The print() statement
1. The last line of the script contains a new command: print().  When running code as a script, the values of variables or computations are not automatically displayed (trying running the script above without that line!).  If you want to show a variable or print some other output, you can use the print() command.  print() goes on its own line, with whatever you want to print inside the parenthesis.
2. The output of the print statement will be printed in the console.
3. We can make the print statement more informative, if we want to.  For example, we could combine a descriptive text string with the variable that we wish to print.
> Example- change the last line of the script to
~~~
print("The area in mm2 is", AreaInMM)
~~~
{: .language-python}

## Good practices- commenting code
Python doesn’t care about picking good variable names, whether or not you break up chunks of code with whitespace, or whether or not you include helpful notes to yourself or other users.  However, all of these things will make a difference to a human reader.  You should always write your code for a human audience- specifically yourself or someone else who might pick up your project months or years from now and need to figure out what your code actually does

To include the readability and usefulness of your code, you should
Break up long pieces of code logically, using empty lines (whitespace).  Try to break up your code into chunks based on function.
Include comments.  The # symbol indicates that everything that comes after it on a line of code is a comment.  The comment will be ignored by Python, but it can provide useful information to future users of your code (including you!).  At a minimum, you should include
A comment line at the beginning of each section of code explaining what the section is doing
Comments at the end of lines if the line of code does something unusual or interesting
Put the comment on the line above if it is long
Anything that will be important to remember later should be commented!  You will not remember why you made that choice 3 days, months, or years later!
Python also allows you to include longer comments a block comments (such as the block comment automatically generated by Spyder at the top of a script).  
At minimum, include a block comment at the beginning of your script explaining the name, usage, and the purpose/goal of the script.

NEED TO REFORMAT
